# Feature explanations

# Title features

When using the **standalone** dataset all feautres that start with "title*" are generated by ONLY looking at the post title.
All these features exist also without the "title*" prefix which means they were generated by ONLY looking at the post text.

When using the **prepend** dataset we never have the "title\_" prefix since in this case we always prepend the post title to the post text.

# LIWC feature

All features containg "liwc\_" were generated by the LIWC software. See [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1EHrlt6KcL3jZ5gFAA1vjKd5GdXKLRWmk/view?usp=sharing) for a list of all LIWC features and their explanations.

# Moral Foundations features

All features containg "foundations\_" were generated by using the moral foundations dictionary found [here](https://moralfoundations.org/other-materials/) in the LIWC software. It contains 11 features (plus some features that are always automaticall appended by LIWC). Namely, HarmVirtue, HarmVice, FairnessVirtue, FairnessVice, IngroupVirtue, IngroupVice, AuthorityVirtue, AuthorityVice, PurityVirtue, PurityVice, MoralityGeneral,

# Speaker features

All features containing "speaker\_":
'speaker_author_age' = Age of the speaker/poster. Extracted by looking for expressions like "My (25, F) boyfirend (33, M) went to get..."

'speaker_author_gender' = Gender of the speaker/poster. Extracted by looking for expressions like "My (25, F) boyfirend (33, M) went to get..."

'speaker_account_age' = Reddit account age of the poster in days.

'speaker_account_comment_karma' = Reddit account comment karma. See [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/NoStupidQuestions/comments/2idfhk/
what_is_link_karma/)
'speaker_account_link_karma' = Reddit account link karma. See [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/NoStupidQuestions/comments/2idfhk/what_is_link_karma/)

# Topic number:

Which topic number was assigned to the post. Value is nominal and does not have any meaning excpet for the -1 value which indicates that it was not assigned a topic, because it did not fit well enough into one.

# Post features

All features containing "post\_":
'post_id' = id of the post as a string.

'post_num_comments' = Number of comments this post got.

'post_score' = Score of a post.

'post_ratio' = Upvote ratio of a post

'post_ups' = Amount of post upvotes (approximated using post_score and post_ratio)

'post_downs' = Amount of post upvotes (approximated using post_score and post_ratio)

# Reaction features

All features containing "reactions\_". Generally means features that describe how people on reddit reacted to the post (excluding up/down votes).
'reactions_is_angel' = Whether the post was crossposted to r/AmITheAngel, which would indicate that the poster is acting morally. 1=True, 0=False

'reactions_is_devil' = Whether the post was crossposted to r/AmITheDevil, which would indicate that the poster is acting morally. 1=True, 0=False

'reactions_YTA' = Amount of comments that wrote YTA.

'reactions_NTA' = Amount of comments that wrote NTA.

'reactions_INFO' = Amount of comments that wrote INFO.

'reactions_ESH' = Amount of comments that wrote ESH.

'reactions_NAH' = Amount of comments that wrote NAH.

'reactions_weighted_YTA' = Amount of comments that wrote YTA multiplied by the comment score.

'reactions_weighted_NTA' = Amount of comments that wrote NTA multiplied by the comment score.

'reactions_weighted_INFO' = Amount of comments that wrote INFO multiplied by the comment score.

'reactions_weighted_ESH' = Amount of comments that wrote ESH multiplied by the comment score.

'reactions_weighted_NAH' = Amount of comments that wrote NAH multiplied by the comment score.

# Writing Style features

## Normalised and absolute values

Normalised values are marked with the "norm" suffix wherease absolute values have the "abs" suffix. (LIWC values are always normalised between 0-100. Ours are normalised between 0-1)

## Symbol counting

'writing*sty*!\_count' = How often the character ! occures in the post.

'writing*sty*"\_count' = How often the character " occures in the post.

'writing*sty*?\_count' = How often the character ? occures in the post.

## Would I be the asshole (hypothetical)

'writing_sty_is_wibta' = Whether the post was a hypothetical and posted with the text "would I be the asshole". Extracted with string matching.

## Emotions contained within a post.

Which emotions + negativity & postitivey were used in the post. Uses the EmoLex dictionary from [here](https://saifmohammad.com/WebPages/NRC-Emotion-Lexicon.htm). Thus uses string matching like LIWC. Is divided by the number of words in the text if normalised.

'writing_sty_negative' = words associated with negative emotions

'writing_sty_trust' = words associated with the emotion trust

'writing_sty_joy' = words associated with the emotion joy

'writing_sty_positive' = words associated with positive emotions

'writing_sty_fear' = words associated with the emotion fear

'writing_sty_anger' = words associated with the emotion anger

'writing_sty_disgust' = words associated with the emotion disgust

'writing_sty_surprise' = words associated with the emotion surprise

'writing_sty_sadness' = words associated with the emotion sadness

'writing_sty_anticipation' = words associated with the emotion anticipation

## AITA location

Where the question Am I the asshole appears within the text as a percentage of the text. I.e. at the begging of the text 0, at then end 1.
Also matches WIBTA and a few different spellings.

'writing_sty_aita_count' = How often the question AITA/WIBTA appears in the post

'writing_sty_aita_avg_location' = The average location of AITA/WIBTA [0,1]. Is -1 if it never appears.

'writing_sty_aita_fst_location' = The fist location of AITA/WIBTA [0,1]. Is -1 if it never appears.

'writing_sty_aita_lst_location' = The last location of AITA/WIBTA [0,1]. Is -1 if it never appears.

## Profanity

How many profane words appear in the text. Is divided by the number of words in the text if normalised.

'writing_sty_profanity' = How many profane words there are

## Tense

In what tense the text is written. We only distinguish past, present and future. Divided by number of sentences if normalised.
ML based.

'writing_sty_past' = Amount of past tense.

'writing_sty_present' = Amount of present tense.

'writing_sty_future' = Amount of future tense.

## Active & Passive voice

In what voice the text is written. Divided by number of sentences if normalised. ML based.
'writing_sty_active' = Amount of active voice.

'writing_sty_passive' = Amount of passive voice.

## Postivity & Subjectivity

How positive/Negative a sentence was written + how subjective/objective it was. ML based.

'writing_sty_sent_polarity' = How positive/negative the post is. -1 = very negative, 0 = neutral, 1 = very positive

'writing_sty_sent_subjectivity' = How subjective/objective the post is. 0 = very objective, 1 = very subjective

## Focus Pronoun

Check various types of pronouns and count how often they appeared as the subject or object. Also counts possessive pronouns & adjectives.
Divided by number of words in the text if normalised. ML based.

'writing_sty_focus_i_subj' = How often pronoun 1. person singular pronoun appeared as the subject.

'writing_sty_focus_you_sg_subj' = How often pronoun 2. person singular pronoun appeared as the subject.

'writing_sty_focus_he_subj' = How often pronoun 3. person singular pronoun appeared as the subject.

'writing_sty_focus_we_subj' = How often pronoun 1. person plural pronoun appeared as the subject.

'writing_sty_focus_you_pl_subj' = How often pronoun 2. person plural pronoun appeared as the subject.

'writing_sty_focus_they_subj' = How often pronoun 3. person plural pronoun appeared as the subject.

'writing_sty_focus_i_obj'= How often pronoun 1. person singular pronoun appeared as the object.

'writing_sty_focus_you_sg_obj'= How often pronoun 2. person singular pronoun appeared as the object.

'writing_sty_focus_he_obj'= How often pronoun 3. person singular pronoun appeared as the object.

'writing_sty_focus_we_obj'= How often pronoun 1. person plural pronoun appeared as the object.

'writing_sty_focus_you_pl_obj'= How often pronoun 2. person plural pronoun appeared as the object.

'writing_sty_focus_they_obj'= How often pronoun 3. person plural pronoun appeared as the object.

'writing_sty_focus_i_poss'= How often 1. person singular possessive pronoun & adjectives appeared.

'writing_sty_focus_you_sg_poss'= How often 2. person singular possessive pronoun & adjectives appeared.

'writing_sty_focus_he_poss'= How often 3. person singular possessive pronoun & adjectives appeared.

'writing_sty_focus_we_poss'= How often 1. person plural possessive pronoun & adjectives appeared.

'writing_sty_focus_you_pl_poss'= How often 2. person plural possessive pronoun & adjectives appeared.

'writing_sty_focus_they_poss'= How often 3. person plural possessive pronoun & adjectives appeared.

## Self vs other emotions

Checks the emotions that are either about the self or other people involved. Self focused sentences are defined as sentences where a 1st pronoun is the subject of a sentence. Other focused sentences are sentences with any other pronoun as subject. Sentences w.o. a pronoun as a subject are ignored (I think). ML based, Dictionary based for emotions.

'writing_sty_self_fear_norm' = How often the emotion fear is in sentences about the self

'writing_sty_self_anger_norm' = How often the emotion anger is in sentences about the self

'writing_sty_self_trust_norm' = How often the emotion trust is in sentences about the self

'writing_sty_self_surprise_norm' = How often the emotion surprise is in sentences about the self

'writing_sty_self_sadness_norm' = How often the emotion sadness is in sentences about the self

'writing_sty_self_disgust_norm' = How often the emotion disgust is in sentences about the self

'writing_sty_self_joy_norm' = How often the emotion joy is in sentences about the self

'writing_sty_self_anticipation_norm' = How often the emotion anticipation is in sentences about the self

'writing_sty_self_positive_norm' = How positive sentences about the self are

'writing_sty_self_negative_norm' = How negative sentences about the self are

'writing_sty_other_fear_norm' = How often the emotion fear is in sentences about others

'writing_sty_other_anger_norm' = How often the emotion anger is in sentences about others

'writing_sty_other_trust_norm' = How often the emotion trust is in sentences about others

'writing_sty_other_surprise_norm' = How often the emotion surprise is in sentences about others

'writing_sty_other_sadness_norm' = How often the emotion sadness is in sentences about others

'writing_sty_other_disgust_norm' = How often the emotion disgust is in sentences about others

'writing_sty_other_joy_norm' = How often the emotion joy is in sentences about others

'writing_sty_other_anticipation_norm' = How often the emotion anticipation is in sentences about others

'writing_sty_other_positive_norm' = How positive sentences about others are

'writing_sty_other_negative_norm' = How negative sentences about others are

## Self vs other profanity

Checks the profanity amount in sentences either about the self or other people involved. Self focused sentences are defined as sentences where a 1st pronoun is the subject of a sentence. Other focused sentences are sentences with any other pronoun as subject. Sentences w.o. a pronoun as a subject are ignored (I think).ML based, Dictionary based for profanity.

'writing_sty_self_prof' = Profanity in sentences about the self

'writing_sty_other_prof' = Profanity in sentences about others
